# Math-Visualizations
A collection of math visualizations for courses taught at Clarkson University


This project uses Matlab to create various visualizations for (currently) key calculus definitions and concepts. It was made for my personal convenience when building and designing dynamic figures. As such it may not be particularly easy to use for others. 

The uiFigure class allows the user to create a clean plot interface that allows for the placement of custom buttons and custom sliders that can be used to adjust plots. 
Calling "app = uiFigure(name, numSubPlots)" generates a figure with title "Name" and numSubPlots vertical subplots. 
After the initial call, the user can access the figure object (app.fig), the various suplots (app.ax or app.ax(i)) and any placed controls (app.controls(i)). 
- The figures (app.fig) and axes (app.ax or app.ax(i)) are the standard Matlab figure object and as such have all the standard controllable options. 
- The controls are non-standard buttons and sliders .
- Buttons are generated by the uicontrol_Latex function. This should be changed to be an internal function in the uiFigure class but I first want to recreate a number of figures to this new setup before I clean up the uiFigure class to be more optimal. The main difference between these and the standard implementations of buttons in Matlab is the inclusion of latex fonts. This is done by overlaying text objects, which support latex fonts, over the standard buttons defined by the uicontrol object in Matlab. I implemented some of the functionality of standard buttons but only the parts that I personally used in my visualizations.
- Sliders are the standard matlab sliders with the addition of a latex label above the main slider. This allows for more pretty latex fonts to be used.
- A main feature of this class is the call to uiGrid when making a new button or slider. This controls the spacing to be in bottom aligned columns, left aligned rows and ceneterd columns/rows with the inclusion of the appropriate flags. This eases the process of computing these locations manually and the uniformity adds to the visual appeal of the figures. All spacing behaviour can be adjusted in the "uiGrid" function.
- Another main feature is the Subplot_Mover function that evenly adjusts the spacing of all subplots when the first button or slider is placed. This ensures that there is no overlap with the plotting region.


The functions in "Helper/Convenient Plotting Functions" are there to simplify applying the plot settings that I think make the plots more crisp. 
- "cmocean" is provided by Kristen M. Thyng under an MIT license and is available here: https://github.com/matplotlib/cmocean This contains the colormaps used in virtually all 3D figures.
- The "Pretty_Color" functions automatically apply and appropriately center the cmocean color plots to more effectively view 3D elements.
- "Pretty_Plot" labels the axis, turns on the grid and sets them  to tight. 

The functions in "Helper/Math Computations" are math computations that are used in this project often enough that it is useful to have them as local functions.

The file demo() gives a demo for how to use the code base and its features.
